NGINX page added. (#1475)
w3f/polkadot-wiki: docs/how-to-setup-a-validator-with-nginx-reverse-proxy.md

---

> id: maintain-guides-how-to-setup-a-Validator-with-NGINX-reverse-proxy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
id: maintain-guides-how-to-setup-a-validator-with-reverse-proxy
```

title: Set Up a Validator with NGINX Reverse Proxy
sidebar_label: Set Up a Validator with NGINX Reverse Proxy
---

> This guide assumes you have already the hardware ready with the appropriate specs. It has same configuration of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide assumes that you have already configured your hardware with the appropriate specs. It has same configuration as the
```

> [polkadot secure validator](https://github.com/w3f/polkadot-secure-validator).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[polkadot validator setup](https://github.com/w3f/polkadot-secure-validator).
```

> In this guide, we will walk you through how to configure a reverse proxy in front of your validator. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will walk you through how to configure a reverse proxy using NGINX in front of your validator node. The
```

> validator uses the NGINX reverse proxy only to talk to the public facing nodes to protect it from certain types of attacks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
validator uses the reverse proxy only to talk to the public facing nodes, to protect it from certain types of attacks.
```

### 1. Firewall configuration

> We will configure the firewall with ufw. There needs to be three main ports for this setup. The SSH port commonly is 22 which must be allowed, the proxy port which also must be allowed and the p2p port which in turn must be denied at the firewall level. In this example we will assign the port number `2435` to the proxy port and the port number `30333` to the p2p port.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will configure the firewall with [ufw](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UncomplicatedFirewall). There needs to be three main ports for this setup. 
- An SSH port, commonly ssh/tcp port `22`.
- A proxy port 
- p2p port: must be denied at the firewall level. 

In this example, we will assign the port number `2435` to the proxy port and the port number `30333` to the p2p port. To enable the firewall and the use of the ports, allow SSH access.
```

```bash
# ssh port
ufw allow 22/tcp
# proxy port
ufw allow 2435/tcp
# libp2p port
ufw deny 30333/tcp

> ufw enable

Reviewer 2: might want to put `ufw enable` before the rule additions and then `ufw reload` after. If ufw is running already, I don't think `enable` will reload the rules.

# double check the firewall rules
ufw verbose
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `verbose` option shows some extra information about the firewall's behavior. 
```

> ### 2. Configure journald logs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 2. Basic log viewing
```

> Create a file called `journald.conf` file inside the `/etc/systemd/` directory with the following content:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use [journald](https://www.loggly.com/blog/why-journald/) logs for basic log viewing.
Create a file called `journald.conf` file inside the `/etc/systemd/` directory with the following content:
```

```bash
[Journal]
Storage=persistent
RateLimitIntervalSec=30s
RateLimitBurst=20000
SystemMaxUse=50G
SystemMaxFileSize=512M
SystemMaxFiles=100
```

Check out the [example journald configuration file](https://github.com/w3f/polkadot-secure-validator/blob/master/ansible/roles/polkadot-validator/files/journald.conf) for more available options.

> finally, run the following command to restart the journald service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, run the following command to restart the journald service:
```

```bash
systemctl restart systemd-journald
```

### 3. NGINX reverse proxy setup

> First install NGINX with the following command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, install NGINX with the following command:
```

```

> apt install nginx

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sudo apt-get install nginx
```

```

> Next, create an NGINX configuration file called `nginx.conf` file inside the `/etc/nginx/` directory with the following content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, create an NGINX configuration file called `nginx.conf` inside the `/etc/nginx/` directory with the following content:
```

```bash
user www-data www-data;

load_module /usr/lib/nginx/modules/ngx_stream_module.so;

stream {
  include streams-enabled/*;
}

http {
  include sites-enabled/*;
}

events{
}
```

> This will import and make use of the [NGINX stream module](https://nginx.org/en/docs/stream/ngx_stream_core_module.html). In a nutshell, this module will allow continous streaming of data in or out of the validator machine with all the benefits of having an optimized reverse proxy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will import and make use of the [NGINX stream module](https://nginx.org/en/docs/stream/ngx_stream_core_module.html). In a nutshell, this module allows for continuous streaming of data in or out of the validator machine with all the benefits of having an optimized reverse proxy.
```

Next, create a folder called `/streams-enabled/` inside the `/etc/nginx/` directory and remove the default NGINX site.

```bash
# Create the streams-enabled folder
mkdir /etc/nginx/streams-enabled
# Delete the default configuration
/etc/nginx/sites-enabled/default
```

> Now, inside the newly created directory `/etc/nginx/streams-enabled/`, create the proxy service file called `polkadot-proxy.conf` with the following content and the previously defined ports. The port number `2435` to the proxy port and the port number `30333` to the p2p port.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, inside the newly created directory `/etc/nginx/streams-enabled/`, create the proxy service file called `polkadot-proxy.conf` with the following content: 
> Use the previously defined ports: port `2435` for the proxy port & port number `30333` for the p2p port.
```

```bash
server {
  listen 0.0.0.0:2435;
  proxy_pass localhost:30333;
}
```

> Change the permissions of the file `polkadot-proxy.conf` accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Change the permissions of the file `polkadot-proxy.conf` accordingly:
```

```bash
chmod 0600 polkadot-proxy.conf
```

> Finally, restart NGINX with the following command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, restart NGINX with the following command:
```

```bash
service nginx restart
```

### 4. Defining your proxy port and p2p port in the polkadot command

> These are some of the flags you are going to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These are some of the flags you are going to use when executing the command.
```

`--public-addr <VALIDATOR_IP>, <PROXY_PORT>` - This flag defines the validator's IP and the proxy port
that all other nodes in the network will connect to.

`--listen-addr <LOCALHOST>, <P2P_PORT>` - This flag defines the p2p port that the polkadot application
will use to connect to the NGINX reverse proxy.

#### P2P Networking

Nodes will use [libp2p](https://libp2p.io/) as the networking layer to establish peers and gossip

> messages but will need to go through NGINX first as a first listener of the streaming data to help balance the load.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
messages, but uses NGINX as a load balancer which acts as a *first listener* of the streaming data to help balance the load.
```

##### public-addr

> `public-addr` - A `public-addr` is a flexible encoding of multiple layers of protocols into a human

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`public-addr` - a flexible encoding of multiple layers of protocols into a human
```

readable addressing scheme. In our example, `/ip4/<VALIDATOR_IP>/tcp/<PROXY_PORT>` is a valid `public-addr` that

> specifies you want the network to reach the Validator IPv4 address with tcp packets on the predefined proxy port.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
specifies wanting the network to reach the validator IPv4 address with TCP packets on the pre-defined proxy port.
```

> - `IP_ADDRESS` - The public IP address of the validator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `IP_ADDRESS` - the public IP address of the validator.
```

> - `PROXY_PORT` - This is the port that nodes will send p2p messages over the network and will be read by the NGINX reverse proxy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `PROXY_PORT` - the port that nodes will send p2p messages over the network and are read by the NGINX reverse proxy.
```

##### listen-addr

> `listen-addr` - A `public-addr` is the specification of what port the polkadot application will connect to the reverse proxy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`listen-addr` -  the specification of what port the polkadot application will connect to the reverse proxy.
```

> In our example, `/ip4/127.0.0.1/tcp/<P2P_PORT>` means that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In our example, `/ip4/127.0.0.1/tcp/<P2P_PORT>` 
```

> specifies you want to listen to NGINX on the localhost address `127.0.0.1` with tcp packets on the predefined p2p port.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
specifies that you want to listen to NGINX on the localhost address (`127.0.0.1`), with TCP packets on the pre-defined p2p port.
```

> - `P2P_PORT` - This is the port that the polkadot application will connect to NGINX.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `P2P_PORT` - the port that the polkadot application connects to NGINX.
```

> #### Starting Validator with the NGINX Proxy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Starting the validator with the NGINX proxy
```

> After retrieving the appropriate `IP_ADDRESS`, `PROXY_PORT` and `P2P_PORT` of the validator node, we can start the validator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After retrieving the appropriate `IP_ADDRESS`, `PROXY_PORT` and `P2P_PORT` of the validator node, we can start the validator.
```

> using the following flags:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Start your validator with the `--validator` flag:

```bash
# Validator Node
polkadot \
  --name My_Validator_Name \
  --validator \
  --public-addr=/ip4/IP_ADDRESS/tcp/2435 \
  --listen-addr=/ip4/127.0.0.1/tcp/30333 \
  --rpc-methods=Unsafe \
  --chain=Polkadot

```

> You should see your validator's peers, and the p2p port you are using to connect to NGINX.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should see your validator's peers, as well as the p2p port you are using to connect to NGINX.
```
